\documentclass{kththesis}


\usepackage{csquotes} % Recommended by biblatex
\usepackage[backend=biber]{biblatex}
\addbibresource{bibliography.bib} % The file containing our references, in BibTeX format
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{subcaption}
\usepackage[hidelinks]{hyperref}
\usepackage{cleveref}

% My stuff
\graphicspath{{../images/}}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\newcommand{\bibentry}[1]{\parencite{#1}}
\usepackage{todonotes}


\title{Real-time segmentation on smartphone}
\alttitle{Realtids segmentering p√• smartphone}
\author{Axel Demborg}
\email{demborg@kth.se}
\supervisor{Hossein Azizpour}
\examiner{Danica Kragic}
\programme{Master in Computer Science}
\school{School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science}
\date{\today}


\begin{document}

\listoftodos

% Frontmatter includes the titlepage, abstracts and table-of-contents
\frontmatter

\titlepage

\begin{abstract}

\end{abstract}


\begin{otherlanguage}{swedish}
  \begin{abstract}
  \end{abstract}
\end{otherlanguage}

\section*{Acknowledgments}
% Firstly I would like to thank my supervisors, Alper Aydemir and Hossein Azizpour for
% the help and support they have given me in compleeting this thesis. This would
% have been much harder and less fun without you.

% I would also like to thank Emil Ernfeldt for his fantastic help with creating and
% managing the datasets used in this work as well as for building the monstrosity
% of a network that was used as a teacher in some of the experiments.

% And a huge thanks to the entire staff at Volumental whom have made it a joy to go to work
% each day, it has been a true pleasure to share a office with all of you!


\tableofcontents


% Mainmatter is where the actual contents of the thesis goes
\mainmatter


\chapter{Introduction}
For 3D scanning of human bodies specialized hardware has traditionally been
used. However with the recent developments in convolutional neural networks
(CNN) where high quality object segmentation \parencite{BriefHistory} and pose
estimation \parencite{he2017mask} have been performed from RGB images it should
be possible to do online segmentation of human bodies on commodity smartphones. An issue
for mobile deployments of these networks however is their shear size meaning
that they can't fit in the on-chip SRAM and instead have to reside in the power
hungry off-chip DRAM making the application up to 100 times more power consuming
\parencite{han2015learning}. Another issue concerns the computational load of
the models and means that the networks can't run in real-time on the relatively
slow processing power of a smartphone. 

Further issues with these neural networks are that the require huge amounts of
labeled data to train and that generating high quality ground truth data is
really expensive. This is especially true for tasks like semantic segmentation
where pixel level annotations have to be made for each image and labeling a
single image is a tedious task, not to mention the thousands required for
training. 

\section{Research Questions}
\todo{Make this into actual text}
To try and address the issues this thesis will focus on two research questions:
\begin{enumerate}
\item To what extent can modern neural networks be slimmed down and optimized for
  real-time execution on smartphones?
\item How well does performance from networks trained on synthetic datasets
  transfer to real world data? 
\end{enumerate}
  
\chapter{Background}
\section{Related work}
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) where first introduced in 1998
\bibentry{lecun1998gradient} and since then larger and larger CNNs have slowly
become the state of the art method for most areas of computer vision. Notably
\emph{AlexNet} \bibentry{krizhevsky2012imagenet} in 2012 proved that that deep
CNNs could be used for high resolution image classification by beating the
previous state of the art \bibentry{sanchez2011high} on the \emph{ImageNet}
classification challenge \bibentry{deng2009imagenet}. To do this \emph{AlexNet}
used 60 million parameters and 650,000 neurons and training of the network was
only made feasible by the use of multiple graphical processing units (GPUs)
\bibentry{krizhevsky2012imagenet}.

In the areas of object detection and semantic segmentation it was \emph{Regions
  with CNN features} (\emph{R-CNN}) \bibentry{girshick2014rich} that in 2014
first showed that CNNs could be successfully be applied to these fields by
significantly improving over the previous state of the art in object detection
\bibentry{ren2013histograms} and after minor modifications matching the
performance of the state of the art in semantic segmentation
\bibentry{carreira2012semantic} with a system not specifically built for the
task. For object detection \emph{R-CNN} works as a hybrid system with
\emph{selective search} \bibentry{uijlings2013selective} producing proposals for
object regions and a CNN, pre-trained on \emph{ImageNet}
\bibentry{deng2009imagenet} and fine-tuned for region classification, generating
fixed length features for each region, finally classifying each region by
running class specific \emph{support vector machines}
\bibentry{boser1992training} on these features. Some issues with \emph{R-CNN}
are that it requires a multistage training, training the CNN to give good
features and training the SVMs for classification, and that it is slow, for
training but most notably at inference where one image is processed in 47s.
These problems are addressed with further work resulting in \emph{Fast R-CNN}
\bibentry{girshick2015fast} where the CNN isn't run once per proposed region but
instead once for the entire network generating a convolutional feature map that
is then pooled with a region of interest (RoI) pooling layer to produce a
feature vector for each region. These feature vectors are then feed into a fully
connected neural network with two sibling output layers that perform both
classification and bounding box refinement in parallel. With these improvements
\emph{Fast R-CNN} achieves faster inference and higher accuracy than its
predecessors and does so with a arguably much more elegant design. Even though
\emph{Fast R-CNN} improved speed significantly it was nowhere near real-time
performance, further performance improvements were introduced with \emph{Faster
  R-CNN} \bibentry{ren2015faster} where \emph{selective search} for region
proposals is replaced with Region Proposal Networks, fully convolutional neural
networks that take as input the convolutional feature maps as described from
\emph{Fast R-CNN} and outputs region proposals. Since this approach for region
proposals shares most of its computation with the classification network the
region proposals are practically free and frame rates of 5fps are achievable.
The region proposal networks not only speed up computation but also prove to
give better accuracy region proposals and thus raise over all accuracy in the
system as well \bibentry{ren2015faster}. Even further improvements to this
framework was achieved with the introduction of \emph{Mask R-CNN}
\bibentry{he2017mask} which expands upon \emph{Faster R-CNN} by adding a third
branch for a segmentation mask besides the branches for bounding box refinement
and classification making the system able to predict not only the general
bounding box of items in the image but also which exact pixels belong to the
object. Since segmentation is a pixel-by-pixel prediction problem \emph{Mask
  R-CNN} replaces the spatially quantizing RoIPool operation from \emph{Fast
  R-CNN} with a quantization-free layer called RoIAllign. 

Some parallel work on semantic segmentation of images resulted in \emph{SegNet} \bibentry{badrinarayanan2015segnet}, a fully convolutional encoder-decoder network. Here the encoder network encodes the input image down into a lower dimensional feature space while keeping storing the indices of the max pooling operations. The low dimensional representations are then run through a decoder network which is architecturally a mirror image of the encoder network but where the max pooling operations have been replaced with upsampling layers that use the stored indices from the corresponding pooling layers to maintain the granularity of the images. The final layer in the network is a softmax and hence the outputs are the probabilities of each pixel belong to each class.
Continued work on segmentation utilizes blocks of so called \emph{DenseNets}
\bibentry{huang2017densely}, CNNs where every layer is connected to every layer
after it enabling the training of really deep network architectures by
alleviating the vanishing gradient problem and promoting feature reuse between
the layers. By using these \emph{DensNets} in a very deep encoder-decoder
structure where skip connections restore image granularity during upsampling the
state of the art in image segmentation has been pushed even further
\bibentry{jegou2017one} while still reducing the amount of parameters required
for the models by a factor 10 as compared to the previous state of art. 

Despite their impressive performance on a wide range of problems neural networks
are still prohibited from running locally on mobile devices with slow
processors, limited power envelopes or limited memory due to their large size
and big computational load. For example modern neural networks can't fit on the
on-chip SRAM cache and instead they have to reside in the much more power hungry
off-chip DRAM memory making applications up to 100 times more power consuming
\bibentry{han2015learning}. Regarding inference speed the most modern networks
for object segmentation \bibentry{he2017mask} run at 5fps but that is on high
performance GPUs meaning that mobile performance is far from real-time. Due to
these limitations applications of neural networks for mobile use cases are
either to forced give up on state of the art performance or to be run on
off-site servers which requires steady network connections and incurs delays,
both of which may be intolerable for real-time mobile applications, self driving
cars and robotics \bibentry{jin2014flattened}. However work on understanding the
structure of the learned weights in neural networks
\bibentry{denil2013predicting} has showed that there is significant redundancy
in the parameterization of several deep learning models and that up to 95\% of
weights in networks can be predicted from the remaining 5\% without any drop in
accuracy. This indicates that models could be made much smaller while still
maintaining performance and several such approaches for squeezing high
performance networks into small memory footprints and computational loads have
been proposed. The most prominent approaches will be presented below.  

\subsection{Quantization of weights}
Modern neural networks are usually based on 32-bit floating point
representations of parameters. It has been shown however that networks are quite
resilient to noise and even that some noise can improve training
\bibentry{murray1994enhanced}. Since reduced precision variables can be modeled
as noise this means that networks can be compressed by changing to a less
accurate format without any loss in performance. This can be done either by
reducing the bit accuracy after training \bibentry{vanhoucke2011improving}  or
by doing the entire training in reduced accuracy \bibentry{hubara2016quantized}
\bibentry{gupta2015deep}. The benefits of using a reduced format like this for
representation is not only that the models take less space but also that the
individual multiplications become cheaper and hence the networks run faster. 

\subsection{Weight sharing}
One of the most direct approaches for removing the redundancy in parametrization
from neural networks is by forcing the networks to share weights between
different connections. This is precisely what \emph{HashedNets}
\bibentry{chen2015compressing} does by fixing the amount of weights \(K^l\) that
are to be used in each layer making the weights \(\vec{w^l} \in
\mathbb{R}^{K^l}\) and using hashing functions to map each element in the
virtual weight matrices \(V_{ij}^l\) to one of these weights \(V_{ij} =
w_{h(i,j)}\) with \(h()\) being a hashing function. With the weight matrices
defined in this fashion \emph{HashedNets} can be trained like normal networks
with the gradients with respect to the weights calculated from the gradients
with respect to the virtual matrices as  
\[ \frac{\partial\mathcal{L}}{\partial w_k^l} = \sum_{ij} \frac{\partial\mathcal{L}}{\partial V_{ij}^l}\frac{\partial V_{ij}^l}{\partial w_k^l} \]
This method gave a compression of about 20 times before any notable loss in
accuracy was introduced during tests on variations of the MNIST dataset which
seems to agree very well with the results from \bibentry{denil2013predicting}. 

Other notable work focuses on the use of k-means clustering to cluster the
weights in networks after training \bibentry{gong2014compressing}, this proves
to work very well and manages to compress the models with a factor 16 with no
more than a 0.5\% drop in classification accuracy on the ImageNet dataset.
Further work in this area explores the effects of pruning away low-weight
connections and iterative retraining of the pruned networks
\bibentry{han2015learning}. This lets the authors compress models with a factor
9 - 13 without any loss in performance while getting sparser weight matrices
that could potentially speed up calculations. These two lines of research,
clustering and pruning, where merged into a single framework called \emph{deep
  compression} \bibentry{han2015deep} where a three stage approach is taken to
model compression. First low-weight connections are pruned away and the network
is retrained to compensate for this, in the second stage k-means clustering is
performed on the weights and again the network is retrained to make the clusters
take the most useful values, finally Huffman coding
\bibentry{van1976construction} is used to reduce the storage required for the
weights. This process allows \emph{deep compression} to compress networks with a
factor 35 without any loss in accuracy. Despite these very impressive results
however \emph{deep compression} comes with a major drawback, it can't be run
efficiently in its compressed form and the full weight matrices have to be
rebuilt at inference time to use the models on commodity hardware. To alleviate
these problems hardware has been designed that could perform prediction directly
from the compressed models. This so called \emph{efficient inference engine}
\bibentry{han2016eie} would enable inference 13 times faster than GPU while
being 3400 times more energy efficient. 

\subsection{Student-teacher learning}
Student-teacher learning is a type of model compression where a smaller and/or
faster to compute \emph{student} network is trained by making it learn the
representations learned by a larger \emph{teacher} network. This idea was first
introduced for compressing ensemble models produced by \emph{Ensemble Selection}
\bibentry{caruana2004ensemble} which consist of hundreds of models of many
different kinds, support vector machines, neural networks, memory based models,
and decision trees into a single neural network \bibentry{bucilua2006model}.
This work leverages the neural networks property of being universal
approximators \bibentry{cybenko1989approximation}, meaning that given
sufficiently much training data and a big enough hidden layer a neural network
can learn to approximate any function with arbitrary precision, by not directly
training the student network on the relatively limited labeled training data
available but instead on large amounts of pseudo random data that has been given
labels by first being passed through the large teacher ensemble. This
compression technique yielded student networks up to 1000 times smaller and 1000
times faster to compute than  their teachers with a negligible drop in accuracy
on some test problems. 

Further work on student-teacher learning experiments with why deep neural
networks usually perform better than shallow ones, even when they have the same
amount of parameters. This was done by training shallow student models to mimic
deep teachers \bibentry{ba2014deep}. The work introduces two major modifications
that make training of these student models feasible, firstly the student model
isn't tasked with just recreating the same label as the teacher but also the
same distribution which is achieved by regressing the student to the logits, log
probability, values of the teacher as they were before softmax. Getting
predictions from the student is then achieved by adding a softmax layer to the
end of it after training. Secondly a bottleneck linear layer is added to the
network to speed up training. With these modifications they are able to train
flat neural networks for both the TMIT and CIFAR-10 datasets with performance
closely matching that of single deep networks. Continued analysis of flat
networks however shows that depth and convolutions are critical for getting good
performance on image classification datasets \bibentry{urban2016deep}.
Empirically this claim is supported by training state of the art, deep,
convolutional models for classification on the CIFAR-10 dataset and then
building an ensemble of such models using that as a teacher for shallow
students. The student models were then compared to deep convolutional benchmarks
that were not trained in a student-teacher fashion. To make sure that the
networks were all performing to the best of their abilities and thus making the
comparison fair Bayesian hyperparameter optimization
\bibentry{snoek2012practical} was used. Through this thorough analysis it was
shown that shallow networks are unable to mimic the performance of deep networks
if the number of parameters is held constant between them, these findings are
also in agreement with the theoretical results that the representational
efficiency of neural networks grows exponentially with the number of layers
\bibentry{liang2016deep}. 

Improvements to the student-teacher learning method have been proposed where the
student is tasked with minimizing the weighted average of the cross-entropy
between its own output and the teacher output when the last layer is softmax
with increased temperature, yielding softer labels, and the cross-entropy
between the student output and the correct labels when they are available. This
framework is called \emph{Distillation} \bibentry{hinton2015distilling} and
proves to work very well for transferring of information from teacher to
student. The framework is demonstrated by training a student model with only
13.2\% test error on the MNIST dataset despite only having seen 7s and 8s during
its own training. These results mean that distillation manages to transfer
knowledge about how a 6 looks from the teacher to the student by only telling it
to what degree different 7s and 8s don't look like 6s. 

Continued work lead to the creation of \emph{FitNets}
\bibentry{romero2014fitnets} which goes in the opposite direction to previous
attempts at student architectures and instead proposes very deep but thin
students. To enable learning in these deep student networks a stage-wise
training procedure is used. In the first stage intermediate layers in the
teacher and student networks are selected, these are called \emph{hint} and
\emph{guided} layers respectively. The guided layer in the student is then
tasked to mimic the hint layer in the teacher through a convolutional regressor
that compensates for the difference in number of outputs between the networks,
this procedure gives a good initialization for the first layers in the student
and allows for it to learn the internal representations of the data from the
teacher. The second stage of training is then distillation as described above
but with the small addition that the weight of the loss against the teacher is
slowly annealed during training. This annealing allows for the student to lean
heavily on the teacher for support in early stages of training and learn samples
which the even the teacher struggles with towards the end of its training. Using
this approach the \emph{FitNets} manage to produce predictions at the same level
or in some cases even better than models with 10 times more parameters. 

Some more recent work \bibentry{zagouruyko2017paying} builds upon the ideas from
\emph{FitNets} with not only letting the students mimic the output of teachers
but also some intermediary representations. Unlike the way it is done
\emph{FitNets} however the student is not tasked with reconstructing the exact
activations of the teacher in the intermediate layers but instead the attention
maps, regions in the image that the teacher uses to make its predictions, and
thus teaches the student where to look. A few different methods for calculating
these attention maps are proposed in the paper but notable is that they are all
non parametric meaning that no extra layers of convolution have to be learned to
make the student attention maps comparable to the ones from the teacher. This
attention transferring approach is proves to give good results on a number of
difficult datasets including \emph{ImageNet} and is also shown to work well
together with distillation. 

\subsection{Architectural optimizations}
Another orthogonal approach for compression is to optimize the convolutional
layers them selves making them require less parameters or less computation to
perform their tasks but still keep as much as possible of their representational
power. One of the simplest things that can be done here is to replace single
layers of \(N \times N\) convolutional filters with two layers with \(N \times
1\) and \(1 \times N\) filters respectively, this reduces the amount of
parameters that have to be stored per channel from \(N^2\) to \(2N\) and the
amount of multiplications that have to be made scale in the same way. These
asymmetrical convolutions have seen successful use in inception models
\bibentry{szegedy2016rethinking}.  
Other variations on the convolutional operator that help compress the networks
are dilated convolutions \bibentry{yu2015multi} where an exponentially expanding
receptive field is achieved without the need for any extra parameters. There
have also been some promising results from \emph{depthwise separable
  convolutions} where the convolution is factored into a depthwise convolution
followed by a pointwise \(1 \times 1\) convolution reducing the computational
load with a factor \(8\) to \(9\) for \(3 \times 3\) convolutional kernels
\bibentry{howard2017mobilenets}. This scheme was introduced in
\bibentry{sifre2014rigid} and has since seen been successfully used in
\emph{Inception} models \bibentry{ioffe2015batch}.  

\emph{SqueezeNet} \bibentry{iandola2016squeezenet} presents a different take on
how to get smaller models in that it rather optimizes the architecture of the
network than any of the constituent parts, this approach gives a network with
\emph{AlexNet} performance but with 50 times fewer parameters than normal
\emph{AlexNet}. This is done by focusing on the usage of \(1 \times 1\)
convolutional filters, reducing the amount of channels that go in to the larger
filters and by holding out on downsampling so that feature maps are kept large
through the network. It was also proven that these results were orthogonal from
compression by running the SqueezeNet through the \emph{deep compression}
framework \bibentry{han2015deep} and getting further 10 times compression with
out accuracy loss. 

\emph{MobileNets} \bibentry{howard2017mobilenets} combine these two approaches,
utilizing both \emph{depthwise separable convolutions} and a heavily optimized
architecture to build networks specially suited for mobile vision applications.
In doing so \emph{MobileNets} also introduce two hyper-parameters,
\emph{width-multiplier} and \emph{resolution-multiplier} that help design models
with a optimal trade off between latency and precision given the limitations of
the available hardware. 

Another network specially designed for real-time segmentation on mobile devices
is \emph{ENet} \bibentry{paszke2016enet}. Here dilated convolutions are used
together with asymmetrical convolutions to give a large receptive field without
introducing that many parameters. The network is built as an encoder-decoder
network but with a much smaller decoder, the argument behind this being that
decoder should simply upsample the output while fine-tuning the details which
should be a simpler task than the information processing and extraction that the
encoder is performing. Attention has also been payed to quickly downsampling the
feature maps which saves on computation but then not downsampling so
aggressively after that keeping much of the spatial information in the images.
Together these improvements give a network that performs on par with
\emph{SegNet} but that requires 79 times fewer parameters and is 18 times faster
at inference. 


\chapter{Experiments}
\section{Data}
Two datasets of segmented feet were used for the experiments.

Firstly a dataset where images and 3D-models where extracted from the companies
3D-scanner and composited with floor images scraped from the internet to create
synthetic images of feet on normal floors. This is illustrated in \cref{fig:process_synthetic}.
This dataset is called
\textit{synthetic} and is divided into training, validation and test sets with
43896, 12960 and 14168 images respectively. The different sets have been
constructed to ensure that there is no overlap of floors or feet between them.
Example images from this dataset can be seen in \cref{fig:data_synthetic}.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.45\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{on_scanner}
        \caption{The foot on the scanner}
        \label{fig:on_scanner}
    \end{subfigure}
    ~ %add desired spacing between images, e. g. ~, \quad, \qquad, \hfill etc. 
      %(or a blank line to force the subfigure onto a new line)
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.45\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{floor}
        \caption{Floor texture}
        \label{fig:texture}
      \end{subfigure}
      
    %add desired spacing between images, e. g. ~, \quad, \qquad, \hfill etc. 
    %(or a blank line to force the subfigure onto a new line)
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.45\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tilted_plan_and_shadow}
        \caption{Texture in scanner plane with added shadows}
        \label{fig:floor_in_plane}
    \end{subfigure}
    ~ %add desired spacing between images, e. g. ~, \quad, \qquad, \hfill etc. 
    %(or a blank line to force the subfigure onto a new line)
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.45\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{teleported_foot}
        \caption{The final image with segmentation}
        \label{fig:process_res}
    \end{subfigure}
    \caption{Steps for creating the synthetic data}\label{fig:process_synthetic}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[h]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.85\textwidth]{synthetic}
  \caption{Examples of images and segmentations from the synthetic dataset}
  \label{fig:data_synthetic}
\end{figure}

Secondly a dataset of 111 images taken of employees at \textit{Volumental} that
has been segmented by hand. This dataset is called \textit{real} and is
primarily used for testing how the methods generalize from  the synthetic data to
real images. Example images can be seen in \cref{fig:data_real}.

\begin{figure}[h]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.85\textwidth]{real}
  \caption{Examples of images and segmentations from the real dataset}
  \label{fig:data_real}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Data augmentation}
One restriction with the \textit{synthetic} dataset is that the images from the
scanner come from only four different angles, rather fixed in regards to the
foot\todo{explain why} and that they are all taken from approximately the same
distance. To enable the algorithms to learn more general foot features despite
these restrictions the original images are augmented by dividing each image into
a \(3\times3\) grid, selecting a random point in each corner cell, and
performing an affine transformation to make these selected points the corners of
a new \(256\times256 \textit{px}\) image.

This augmentation introduces random some zoom, rotation, shear and translation
to the images and should hence help the algorithms learn generalizable features.
Some example of this can be seen in \cref{fig:augment}

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.3\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{orig1}
    \end{subfigure}
    ~ %add desired spacing between images, e. g. ~, \quad, \qquad, \hfill etc. 
      %(or a blank line to force the subfigure onto a new line)
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.3\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{orig2}
      \end{subfigure}
    ~
    %add desired spacing between images, e. g. ~, \quad, \qquad, \hfill etc. 
    %(or a blank line to force the subfigure onto a new line)
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.3\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{orig3}
      \end{subfigure}

      \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.3\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{augmented1}
    \end{subfigure}
    ~ %add desired spacing between images, e. g. ~, \quad, \qquad, \hfill etc. 
      %(or a blank line to force the subfigure onto a new line)
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.3\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{augmented2}
      \end{subfigure}
    ~
    %add desired spacing between images, e. g. ~, \quad, \qquad, \hfill etc. 
    %(or a blank line to force the subfigure onto a new line)
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.3\textwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{augmented3}
      \end{subfigure}
      \caption{Some random augmentations on the same image. Top row is the
        original image with the sampled corners are indicated in blue and
        the sample boundaries are indicated in green. Bottom row is the
        resulting image.}\label{fig:augment}
\end{figure}


\section{Network architectures}
For the experiments four different neural networks were evaluated against each
other. Details on each of these follow below.

\subsection{ENet}

\subsection{LinkNet}

\subsection{MobileSeg}

\subsection{FastLinkNet}

\section{Loss functions}
To train the networks for semantic segmentation three different loss functions
were tested.

\subsection{Cross entropy}
The classical loss function for classification \todo{hah, pun?} tasks is
\textit{Cross Entropy}.

\[L_{CE} = - \sum_i Y_i \log\hat{Y_i}\]

Where \(Y_i\) is ground truth and \(\hat{Y_i}\) is the prediction. Since
semantic segmentation is the task of classifying each pixel in the image this is
a reasonable loss function.

\subsection{IoU loss}
In semantic segmentation a common performance measure is the intersect over union
\textit{IoU} metric between the predicted segmentation and the ground truth.
\textit{IoU} is defined as follows.
\[IoU = \frac{I}{U} = \frac{\textit{TP}}{\textit{FP} + \textit{TP} + \textit{FN}}\]
Where \(I\) is the intersect between the prediction and ground truth, \(U\) the union
between them and FP, FN, and TP indicate the false positive, false negative and
true positive respectively. These different quantities are illustrated in \cref{fig:IoU}.

This metric is used since it gives small objects as much weight as bigger ones.
This stands in comparison to using the proportion of correctly classified pixels
where classifying a image with a lot of background a tiny foot as all background
would give good results.

\begin{figure}[h]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.40\textwidth]{IoU}
  \caption{Notation for \textit{IoU}}
  \label{fig:IoU}
\end{figure}


To directly optimize for \textit{IoU} \textcite{rahman2016optimizing} introduced
a \textit{IoU Loss}.
\[L_{IoU} = 1 - \textit{IoU}\]

If we now let \(V = {1, 2, \dots, N}\) be the set of pixels in the image, \(\hat{Y}\)
the softmax outputs from the network at each pixel and \(Y\) the ground truth
segmentation. The intersection \(I(\hat{Y})\) and union \(U(\hat{Y})\) can be
approximated with the following:

\[I(\hat{Y}) = \sum_{v \in V} Y_v \odot \hat{Y_v}\]
\[U(\hat{Y}) = \sum_{v \in V}\left( Y_v + \hat{Y_v} - Y_v \odot \hat{Y_v} \right) \]

Where \(\odot\) represents the element-wise Hadamard product.

The \textit{IoU} loss hence becomes

\[L_{\textit{IoU}} = 1 - \frac{I(\hat{Y})}{U(\hat{Y})}\]


\subsection{Distillation}

\chapter{Results}
\begin{figure}[h]
  \centering
  \missingfigure{Compare the result images from the different models with GT and
    EmilSeg}
  \caption{Resulting segmentations from the different models. First row is the ground
    truth, below that EmilSeg, ENet, LinkNet, MobileSeg, and FastLinkNet in that
    order.}
  \label{fig:res_images}
  \end{figure}

\chapter{Discussion}

\section{Further work}
\todo{This is just some notes for now}
+ What other things can be done to increase performance?
  + Use temporal aspect of real data
    + Add some momentum to pixels, kind of like persistence of vision in humans 
    + Add LSTM at bottleneck (too slow)
    + Feed last prediction back as additional channels (tested a bit, didn't get it to work)
  + Do pretraining on other data
    + Train encoder on say ImageNet to learn visual features?
    + Train for segmentation on something more general (DAVIS?) and finetune for feet?
    + Something about how the synthetic dataset is built, may be, using actual
    3d-models or GANS? would give better training data?
    

\printbibliography[heading=bibintoc] % Print the bibliography (and make it appear in the table of contents)

\appendix

\chapter{Unnecessary Appended Material}

\end{document}
